Kotlin has embraced Gradle as their first choice for a build tool.
If you have been using Maven for years like I have,
this may provide a little bit of a pain point for you.
If you've never used Gradle before, it doesn't have a long,
steep learning curve, but it is different than Maven.
Gradle is essentially a hybrid of Ant and Maven using Groovy syntax.
It was one of the tools that came out of the push to
eliminate everything XML in a project.
Candidly, it doesn't offer us up anything more than other tools do,
but some people find its syntax easier than XML.
If you prefer to use Maven over Gradle for Kotlin development,
you can,
but just realize that features usually are tested first
with Gradle and second with Maven.
Let's start a build file for our project with Gradle now.
To keep this demo focused on Kotlin and less about the
tools that you use to develop it with,
I've gone ahead and created a simple project structure inside my file system.
You can see here we have a build.
gradle file, my demo notes, and then a folder structure with a src,
main, kotlin path and then our package structure below that.
And I have three files created inside of there,
an Application, a Greeting, and a GreetingController Kotlin file.
Let's open up our build.
gradle file, and as you can see it's blank to begin with.
I'm going to go ahead and paste in some code that I've written that
represents what we're trying to do with our build file here.
I'm going to walk through these pieces.
The build script just says that this is how I want to build my application.
I'm going to use kotlin_version 1.
1.
3, spring_boot_version 1.
5.
4, which repository I would like it to use,
and then the dependencies I need for the build.
Then we can see which plugins we're applying to this to build our application.
We have a kotlin plugin, kotlin-spring, and a spring boot plugin,
and we tell it what we want for the final packaging of the application,
which is a jar with a base name and a version,
the repositories to pull the dependencies from,
and then, down at the bottom,
lastly the dependencies that we need to build our application,
and they're very similar to the dependencies we have above.
We have these compile dependencies,
which tell it how to compile our application and then a test compile,
which is if we're going to utilize any tests inside of our application,
what we want to do to run those tests,
and it's utilizing the spring-boot-starter-test package there.
Now I'm going to switch over to my command line and run a
Gradle command to execute this build.
Okay, now that I'm at the root of my project,
I'm going to execute a Gradle wrapper command.
And what this does is it goes through and builds the wrapper off of
the build file that we just created in there.
And if this is the first time you've ran this,
you may see a lot of commands rolling off the page just like we do
when we're utilizing Maven to build an application.
It's got to go download all of those dependencies and cache them locally first.
Since I've ran it before, it's already downloaded those.
It's really not going to be any different when you do it.
It's just going to take it a minute longer to download those dependencies.
Now if I print out my directory, you'll see I have a build.
gradle that we had created before, but I also have a gradle,
a gradlew, and a gradlew.
bat file created.
These are the files that define the settings that we have for
our application based off of that build.
gradle file that we'd created.
And in a few demos from now,
we're going to be executing our application using that gradlew command that we just created.